pose number one the downward-facing dog
we'll begin our yoga sesh with a
downward facing dog pose
so get on all fours keeping your wrists
below your shoulders and your knees
under your hips then tuck your toes
under press your hands into the floor
and straighten your legs to bring your
bum up towards the ceiling we're gonna
hold this pose for thirty seconds ready
let's go
the downward-facing dog is one of the
main poses in most types of yoga it
works
stretches and strengthens your entire
body if it's too hard for you you can
bend your knees a little bit 10 more
seconds and
[Music]
great job
pose number two plank
nothing can pump up the effectiveness of
a workout like the plank cap so let's do
it
start by getting into a push-up position
now place your forearms on the ground so
that your elbows are right below your
shoulders make sure that your body forms
a straight line from head to toe and
that's it
your planking will put 30 seconds on the
clock go the plank is actually one of
the rare exercises that not only
strengthen your core but also work your
entire body it can be pretty difficult
to hold but controlling your breathing
is a nice little trick to make this
exercise a little easier five four three
two one
well done pose number three upward plank
while we're still planking let's try
another type this one's called an upward
play sit on the ground with your legs
straight in front of you and your hands
behind you then lift your hips while
keeping your toes pressed to the floor
all clear great you're thirty seconds
starts now
[Music]
the upward blank post stretches your
upper body improves your balance and
strengthens your arms legs glutes and
core just like with the regular play
control your breathing to make it easier
five more seconds Bravo
[Music]
pose number for the tree to get in the
tree pose stand tall with your feet
together slowly lift your right knee up
grab it and place your right foot on the
inner thigh of your left leg close to
your groin now lift your arms up to the
sky with your palms together let's begin
with your right leg raised for 30
seconds
if you're completely new to the world of
yoga practicing the tree pose is
definitely a great starting point it
improves your balance and teaches you
how to breathe correctly you're doing
great keep it up and amazing now let's
do the same thing with your left knee
raised
[Music]
Tripos also strengthens and tones the
calves ankles and inner thighs so doing
this exercise regularly will leave you
with some very nice looking legs as an
added bonus it also does a lot for your
core three-two-one done
pose number five warrior one take a
really wide stance and rotate your hips
so that your right leg is in front of
you and your left leg is behind you bend
your right knee so that your shin forms
a straight vertical line roll your
shoulders back lift your chest
and reach your arms with your palms
together let's do 30 seconds on the
right foot
warrior one stance is one of the main
poses in many yoga practices it's
essential for improving the strength of
the core and the entire lower body while
you're doing it
be sure to breathe calmly
and now change it up to your left leg
among other things warrior one also
gives a good stretch to your chest lungs
shoulders hips thighs and the list goes
on
try not to tip your pelvis forward as it
can put too much pressure on your lower
back we're almost done and that's it for
warrior one now get ready for warrior
stance to pose number six warrior two
light warrior one stand with your feet
about one leg length apart but don't
square your hips this time turn your
right foot out and bend that knee at a
45 degree angle now stretch your arms
out to the sides and gaze over with your
right hand let's do half a minute on the
right side
[Music]
warrior two stretches your hips and
inner thighs while improving your
balance tenfold if you have any kind of
neck problems don't turn your head to
look over your hand though just look
straight ahead
[Music]
okay now let's do the left side warrior
two can also help improve digestion and
relieve back aches not to mention it
significantly increases your stamina
making you stronger both physically and
mentally just a couple more seconds
and done
[Music]
pose number seven the extended side
angle
[Music]
start by getting into warrior two only
instead of stretching your arms out to
the sides bend your body to place your
right hand on the floor next to your
right foot then stretch your left hand
up towards the ceiling keeping a
straight line from the right hand to the
left as always let's begin with the
right side
this particular pose is designed to
target the sides of the torso and
strengthen the legs hips hamstrings
calves shoulders chest and spine so
basically your whole body not bad right
and now time to switch to your left side
[Music]
the extended side angle pose also opens
up the lungs improves digestion and
helps relieve stress oh and it can
sharpen your mind to try to focus on
exactly what each part of your body is
doing during the post doing this
regularly will make all of your problems
with concentration disappear and that's
it for this pose take a deep breath and
let's move on to the next one pose
number eight seated forward bend
let's get back down on the floor shall
we sit down with your legs pulled
together straight out in front of you
now start to lean forward from your
waist reaching for your toes once you've
reached your limit as far as stretching
goes hold it for the next thirty Seconds
you can probably feel it right about now
but this pose is awesome for stretching
your lower and upper back as well as
your hamstrings it opens up the entire
body teaches you to breathe when we're
in an uncomfortable position helps with
headaches and anxiety and reduces
fatigue just make sure to keep your back
straight and do the pose correctly hold
it a little more and nailed it pose
number 9 bridge
lie on your back with your knees bent up
lift your hips up towards the ceiling
and hold this position yep
it's pretty straightforward your time
startsnow
the bridges yet another essential pose
for beginners it manages to stretch both
the front and the back of the body it
also improves blood circulation and
digestion helps relieve stress and opens
the lungs and thyroid not that many
exercises can do that right
[Music]
hold it and done keep up the energy the
next exercise is right around the corner
pose number 10 child's pose start
Child's Pose by sitting on your knees on
the mat then lower your head to the
floor with your hands reaching forward
or rested at your sides now just relax
for the next thirty Seconds Child's Pose
is the best resting pose for any stress
and tension relief it's also good to do
it in between difficult exercises to
calm down your body and mind plus it
improves your digestion relieves back
and neck pain and stretches your hips
thighs and ankles
and time's up pose number 11 cobra pose
to get into cobra pose
start from the downward facing dog after
that come forward into a plank bend your
elbows and slowly lower your hips down
to the floor roll your shoulders back
and gently lift your upper body elegant
and easy we're ready to hold it for the
next 30 seconds then let's get to it
[Music]
this pose strengthens your back and
opens up your chest and shoulders it
also decreases stiffness in the lower
back do it carefully if you have any
back injuries in that case it's actually
better to stay away from this pose until
you get better
[Music]
three two one nice pose number twelve
bow pose this one's not too hard
depending on your flexibility just lie
on your stomach on the ground or mat
bend your knees lift your thighs up off
the floor reach back and grab your
ankles hold it there for half a minute
bow pose is a miracle for stretching the
whole front and back of your body while
additionally improving your posture and
spinal flexibility however if you have
frequent migraines or insomnia it's
better to avoid this pose the same goes
for those diagnosed with high or low
blood pressure just replace this one
with a different yoga pose and wonderful
three more exercises to go
[Music]
pose number 13 boat pose
start by sitting on the ground bend your
knees lean back and lift your feet until
your shins are parallel to the floor if
you feel comfortable with this position
extend your arms forward straighten your
legs so that your body makes a v-shape
there you go you're now a boat be one
for the next 30 seconds boat pose is a
huge stress reliever it also improves
digestion stimulates the kidneys thyroid
and intestines and strengthen to the
thighs and lower back if you're a lady
and it's that time of the month you are
better off skipping on this pose since
it won't be very beneficial for you
during your period it's also not
advisable to do it regularly if you
suffer from asthma or diarrhea three
more seconds and stop you're doing great
keep it up
pose number 14 fish pose for this one
start off by lying on your back keeping
your feet on the floor and your knees
bent then lift your upper body while
sliding your hands under your butt
keep your forearms and elbows close to
the sides of your body and to lift your
upper back off the floor your thirty
Seconds begin right now
[Music]
this pose strengthens your hamstrings
and lower back it also opens up your
hips and ribcage again if you have
migraines or insomnia this pose
definitely shouldn't be part of your
yoga training during menstruation
however it can help ease the pain
[Music]
three-two-one
done
[Music]
ready for our last exercise pose number
15 wind-relieving exercise this final
exercise does exactly what it sounds
like but we'll get into that later let's
start by lying on your back and bringing
both knees up to your chest press on
your lower abdomen by holding your knees
tight in your arms then raise your head
neck and chest and bring them close to
your knees hug yourself like this for
the next 30 seconds this pose helps
improve your digestion and release toxic
gas from your system yep hence the name
as for your muscles it mostly stretches
your lower back and strengthens a spy
come on almost there and congrats you've
completed the entire workout give
yourself a nice pat on the back for this